# Free Code Camp

_Projects to obtain the certifications of the Free Code Camp platform_



### Courses and Certifications

1. Responsive Web Design (300 hours)
   - [x] Basic HTML and HTML5 - HTML is a markup language that uses a special syntax or notation to describe the structure of a webpage to the browser. HTML elements usually have opening and closing tags that surround and give meaning to content. For example, different elements can describe text as a heading, paragraph, or list item.
   - [x] Basic CSS - CSS, or Cascading Style Sheets, tell the browser how to display the text and other content that you write in HTML. With CSS, you can control the color, font, size, spacing, and many other aspects of HTML elements.
   - [x] Applied Visual Design - Visual design is a combination of typography, color theory, graphics, animation, page layout, and more to help deliver your unique message. In this course, you'll learn how to apply these different elements of visual design to your webpages.
   - [x] Applied Accessibility - In web development, accessibility refers to web content and a UI (user interface) that can be understood, navigated, and interacted with by a broad audience. This includes people with visual, auditory, mobility, or cognitive disabilities. In this course, you'll learn best practices for building webpages that are accessible to everyone.
   - [x] Responsive Web Design Principles - There are many devices that can access the web, and they come in all shapes and sizes. Responsive web design is the practice of designing flexible websites that can respond to different screen sizes, orientations, and resolutions. In this course, you'll learn how to use CSS to make your webpages look good, no matter what device they're viewed on.
   - [x] CSS Flexbox - Flexbox is a powerful, well-supported layout method that was introduced with the latest version of CSS, CSS3. With flexbox, it's easy to center elements on the page and create dynamic user interfaces that shrink and expand automatically. In this course, you'll learn the fundamentals of flexbox and dynamic layouts by building a Twitter card.
   - [x] CSS Grid - The CSS grid is a newer standard that makes it easy to build complex responsive layouts. It works by turning an HTML element into a grid, and lets you place child elements anywhere within. In this course, you'll learn the fundamentals of CSS grid by building different complex layouts, including a blog.
   - [x] Responsive Web Design Projects - Time to put your newly learnt skills to work. By working on these projects, you will get a chance to apply all of the skills, principles, and concepts you have learned so far: HTML, CSS, Visual Design, Accessibility, and more.
2. JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures (300 hours)
   - [ ] Learn Basic JavaScript by Building a Role Playing Game - JavaScript is a powerful scripting language that you can use to make web pages interactive. It's one of the core technologies of the web, along with HTML and CSS. All modern browsers support JavaScript. In this practice project, you'll learn fundamental programming concepts in JavaScript by coding your own Role Playing Game. You'll learn how to work with arrays, strings, objects, functions, loops, if/else statements, and more.
   - [ ] Learn Form Validation by Building a Calorie Counter - Sometimes when you're coding a web application, you'll need to be able to accept input from a user. In this calorie counter project, you'll learn how to validate user input, perform calculations based on that input, and dynamically update your interface to display the results. In this practice project, you'll learn basic regular expressions, template literals, the addEventListener() method, and more.
   - [ ] Learn Basic String and Array Methods by Building a Music Player - Now let's learn some essential string and array methods like the find(), forEach(), map(), and join(). These methods are crucial for developing dynamic web applications. In this project, you'll code a basic MP3 player using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The project covers fundamental concepts such as handling audio playback, managing a playlist, implementing play, pause, next, previous, and shuffle functionalities. You'll even learn how to dynamically update your user interface based on the current song.
   - [ ] Learn the Date Object by Building a Date Formatter - Working with dates in JavaScript can be challenging. You have to navigate various methods, formats, and time zones. In this project, you'll learn how to work with the JavaScript Date object, including its methods and properties. You'll also learn how to correctly format dates. This project will cover concepts such as the getDate(), getMonth(), and getFullYear() methods.
